# `sedrila` use for students

## 1. Starting point

Almost all instructions are on the course webpages generated by `sedrila`.
Your instructors need to tell you where that lives.
Start there.

At some point, the instructions on those webpages may point back towards
the instructions below in the present file.


## 2. Describing your course participation

The website of your course not only contains HTML pages for humans,
it also contains a machine-readable file (called `course.json`)
with the list of tasks you can submit.  
`sedrila` needs that file to do its work, so you need to tell it where the
course webpages are found.

The instructors need your name and student id in order to do their work,
so you need to tell them those.

`sedrila` expects these three items in a file called `student.yaml`
at the top level of your git repository.
Its contents will look roughly like this:

```
course_url: https://someserver.my-university.de/courses/sedrila/WS2028
student_name: Givenname Familyname
student_id: 12345678
partner_student_name: Givenname2 Familyname2
partner_student_id: 12345679
```
Prepare this file with your data and commit it to your git repository.
Committing work for a task works without this file being present, but
making a submission only works if the file exists.


## 3. How to make a commit for a task

`sedrila` strongly suggests a convention for what your commits should look like
when you work on a self-driven lab course.
Using that convention has two advantages for you:

- `sedrila` can then show you an overview of how much time you have invested so far.
- `sedrila` then has an overview of the tasks for which you have already finished some
  work and will use it to compile possible entries for your next submission to an instructor.
  If you do not use the convention, you have to collect those entries yourself.
  As a self-driven lab has many small tasks, you might even overlook some work you have done.


### 3.1 Commit convention

1. Each commit you make should represent work for only one task,
   not for a mix of several tasks.
   The task may be completed or not yet completed.
2. The first line of the commit message must follow a fixed format as described below.


### 3.2 Commit message format convention

Your commit messages should look as follows:

`#SomeTask 2:15h description words`

The `#` is fixed and always the same, like for Twitter hash tags.  
`SomeTask` is the name of the task. Make sure you spell this right.  
`2:15h` is how long you worked on the new data in this commit (here: 2 hours and 15 minutes).  
`description words` is whatever you have to say to describe the actual content of the 
commit. 
If you finished the task, this can be left empty. 
If the task is still incomplete, describe what you did that is new in this commit.

Decimal hours are possible as well:

`#SomeTask 2.75h description words`

This entry means 2 hours and 45 minutes.
When `sedrila` creates a work time report for you, it will use decimal hours.


## 4. How to prepare a submission

When you show your work to an instructor, you will usually not show the results
for only a single task, but several.
This is because tasks in a self-driven lab are so small and numerous that checking each
task separately would be too inefficient.

In order to describe which tasks the instructor should check, you need to prepare
a file, called `submission.yaml` containing the list of tasks to be checked.
In fact, if you obeyed the commit convention described above, `sedrila` is going
to prepare that file for you and all you need to do is kick out entries that
are not yet submission-ready.

The instructor will use that same file to record which of your submitted tasks
are accepted and to record feedback explaining what's wrong with those that are rejected.

To create the draft version of `submission.yaml`, call

`sedrila student --submission`

The command output will explain the next steps.


## 5. How to see what you have done so far (not yet implemented)  TODO 2

Call `sedrila student --list` in order to see a list of the tasks you have submitted so far,
the associated timevalues, and possibly the sum of the associated actual work times.
