# `sedrila` use for students

## 1. Starting point

Almost all instructions are on the course webpages generated by `sedrila`.
Your instructors need to tell you where that lives.
Start there.

Instructions there will tell you when, how, and why to use
`sedrila student init` and `sedrila student import-keys`,
which are required to get rolling.
`import-keys` must be repeated on each computer on which you want to use `sedrila`.

At some point, the instructions on those webpages may point back towards
the instructions below in the present file.


## 2. Describing your course participation

The website of your course not only contains HTML pages for humans,
it also contains a machine-readable file (called `course.json`)
with the list of tasks you can submit.  
`sedrila` needs that file to do its work, so you need to tell it where the
course webpages are found.

The instructors need your name and student id in order to do their work,
so you need to tell them those.

The command `sedrila student init` in your project folder will create
a file called `student.yaml` with the relevant information.
You will be prompted for a course url which you can copy/paste from your
browser.

Afterward, you will be prompted for the necessary information to allow
instructors to grade you.

Committing work for a task works without this file being present, but
making a submission only works if the file exists.

After adding those information, it will import the gpg keys of the instructors.
Technically, this step is optional. You will be prompted before it is performed.
However, since sedrila only considers gradings as valid that come from instructors
you need to import the keys so that sedrila can recognize which gradings commits are
coming from instructors.

You can call `sedrila student import-keys` at any time to import all keys
associated with your course if you skipped it or need different keys later.



## 3. How to make a commit for a task

`sedrila` strongly suggests a convention for what your commits should look like
when you work on a self-driven lab course.
Using that convention has two advantages for you:

- `sedrila` can then show you an overview of how much time you have invested so far.
- `sedrila` then has an overview of the tasks for which you have already finished some
  work and will use it to compile possible entries for your next submission to an instructor.
  If you do not use the convention, you have to collect those entries yourself.
  As a self-driven lab has many small tasks, you might even overlook some work you have done.


### 3.1 Commit convention

1. Each commit you make should represent work for only one task,
   not for a mix of several tasks.
   The task may be completed or not yet completed.
2. The first line of the commit message must follow a fixed format as described below.


### 3.2 Commit message format convention

Your commit messages should look as follows:

`%SomeTask 2:15h description words`

The `%` is fixed and always the same. It is a prefix to tell time keeping
commits apart from others like a request for grading.  
`SomeTask` is the name of the task. Make sure you spell this right.  
`2:15h` is how long you worked on the new data in this commit (here: 2 hours and 15 minutes).  
`description words` is whatever you have to say to describe the actual content of the 
commit. 
If you finished the task, this can be left empty. 
If the task is still incomplete, describe what you did that is new in this commit.
A precision of five or ten minutes will be good enough.
(An additional long commit message after an empty line is possible as well.) 

Beware: Decimal hours are possible as well, but are not recommended. 
`%SomeTask 2.75h description words` would mean 2 hours and 45 minutes,
so make sure you get the colon right or else your data will be distorted.
When `sedrila` creates a work time report for you, it will use decimal hours.


## 4. `student webapp`: How to view your work

Call `sedrila student webapp` in order to browse your working directory.
Just follow the on-screen instructions.
The webapp shows the directory tree and individual files.
A breadcrumb navigation is shown at the top.

For the file links:  
    - `*.md` files will be rendered as Markdown.
    - `*.py`, `*.html`, `*.js`, `*.java` files and many other kinds with known syntax 
      will be rendered with syntax highlighting.
    - `*.html` files will additionally have a link to show the file as an HTML page.
    - `*.prot` command protocol plaintext files will be rendered in color, 
      with highlighting of prompts and commands.
      The highlighting will work only if you use the prescribed prompt format as described
      in some task of your SeDriLa course.

You can use the `--port` option to make the webserver use a different port than the
default one.


## 5. `student menu`: How to prepare a submission

When you show your work to an instructor, you will usually not show the results
for only a single task, but several.
This is because tasks in a self-driven lab are so small and numerous that checking each
task separately would be too inefficient.

In order to describe which tasks the instructor should check, you need to prepare
select them in the webapp (`sedrila student webapp`) by clicking
on a task and selecting "CHECK".

The instructor will use the generated `submission.yaml` file to record
which of your submitted tasks
are accepted and to record feedback explaining what's wrong with those that are rejected.
To send your submissions to the instructor, 
you need to commit `submission.yaml` with the appropriate commit message,
push that commit (and those of your previous work), and send the instructor
an email in a certain format.

To do this, call `sedrila student menu`, 
then commit and push via the menu.
Follow the instructions shown by `push`.


## 6. `student status`, `student webapp`: The work report

`sedrila student status` can show a condensed overview of the work you have submitted so far,
the associated timevalues, and possibly the sum of the associated actual work times.
The work times are available only insofar as you have used the commit message format
described in 3.2 above.
This summary is at the chapter level.

A detailed work report (at the task level) is available via the webapp (`sedrila student webapp`).


## 7. `student finish`: Completing the course

When you have finished your participation in the course, call `sedrila student finish`.
It will show you the steps required to indicate course completion:
the subject line and body text for the email you need to send to your instructor.
